Skywatcher truly is a technology company
[music] that was started because of UAP.
After we turn on the dog whistle, UAPs
literally come to us day after day.
Jordan, our sonic uh lead, came up to me
and Alex like, "Hey, tomorrow we're
going to see, [music] you know, a
conflict in the sky. We're going to have
uh different UAPs are going to come in
and there's going to be
He sensed that.
He he said that.
Whoa.
We're seeing multiple classes, three
[music] classes today. We saw them all
with binoculars andor the naked eye,
which is really new for us. We've not
had that experience in the last 5 years.
These days, since our technology
platforms are so high to generate
effects they could mimic and our
detection platforms are so well
advanced, so we could see a lot more.
Then [music] it really is a zoo of
options and possibilities.
[music]
We have three spectrums and we see them
on radar. Then we get in a helicopter
and go [music] chase them and they evade
us,
right? But they evade us cuz the ground
can see them evading from the air. We've
never laid eyes on them,
right? We're sitting there with
binoculars, sitting with uh SER cameras.
[music]
The reason why the electrooptical can
see them, cannot is because that little
bit of extra is where they're actually
emitting light.
I think the the government's conflicted
right now. I think they have advanced
secret physics and and and knowledge and
science.
I agree with you.
That they've had probably since at least
the end of World War II.
Do you know that there's physics
knowledge held by aerospace companies
that is not?
There certainly is materials knowledge.
Materials Well, okay. Material science
which involves topological physics or
whatever. What I think a lot of people
expect in this subject is for [music]
everything to tie together so neatly and
perfectly. You know, it's like the
things you're seeing in the sky are the
things that we have on the ground are
the secret science things is the
consciousness [music] stuff and it all
fits together in this neat thing and
then also space aliens and they're from
Zeta reticula and you're like, "Oh, it's
easy." And in fact, all of those things
could be their own disperate threads.
The skies are not classified and we are
[music] seeing things in the skies.
Those things seem to be there all the
time. Mid turn before he could actually
turn it to the UAP,
the UAP hit us with an energy weapon.
Wa.
I'm here with James Valor. It's an honor
to have you, man. I am beyond intrigued
at what you're doing with Sky Watcher.
Uh we have a mutual friend Jake Barber
who uh gave me the honor and privilege
of helping tell his story after Ross
Koulthart uh came out as the first
person, one of the first people to
retrieve uh this craft of non-human
origin, an egg-shaped craft. And he
mentioned when I was interviewing him
that he had this private enterprise he
was working on called Skywatcher. Since
then, you guys have dropped a couple of
really incredible videos. The second of
which, I have to say, was pretty
mind-blowing. Each UAP class has
different characteristics. Some shimmer,
some tumble, [music] some spin, some
look like they're alive and they just
fly like a living object in the sky.
UAPs are extremely hard to image. What
is seen with a naked eye is generally
not what is seen under camera.
Even me, I'm sometimes skeptical like
what what you know, what are these guys
going to find? And I thought the
taxonomy you guys had, nine classes of
UFOs that you showed um was really
impressive. and you're I think you know
pushing the field forward uh with that
categorization and with you know um the
sensing techniques you're using. So
James, thank you for being here today.
Appreciate you.
Happy to be here. Uh Jesse
and we're on this uh what is this? This
the USS Hornet right now.
Yeah. On a museum, a floating museum.
A floating museum UAP hackathon. So
super cool. And uh I guess the the main
question I want to start with is how
does one get into a private enterprise
around detecting UAPs? What's the what's
the origin story for you?
Well, um so uh I started out in the
military, spent a career there, retired
as a sergeant major. Uh retired in 2020
and spent about 23 years uh working for
the government, deploying a lot, jumping
out of airplanes, doing interesting
things and bad places usually. Uh after
I retired, I started several companies
and some of my companies were contracted
by the government to do different uh war
game projects. At one of those war war
game events in 2021, we had an
observation. Uh it turned out to be
class one UAPs and we originally thought
that that was a government made, US
government made tool. So we're very
secretive about it. We protected it and
did all the due diligence to kind of
make sure that that didn't get out
anywhere just in case it was made in
America and need to be protected. So
that's how we kind of got into it. It
was actually by accident. And I'd be
remiss if I didn't mention I am the, if
you will, the the lead operations guy.
I'm the guy who who drove the discovery,
but I'm not the person I'm not the
pioneer that actually discovered it.
Right? So there's there's two pioneers
in this field who wish to remain
anonymous right now. Uh one is uh Mr. K,
I'll say. Okay.
And he's a he's a really cool dude. He's
like a physicist. makes uh jet engines,
flamethrowers, uh works on hot rods, and
does physics for fun as well. Like he's
really really cool dude. He is actually
the first one on our team that figured
out that hey, there's UAPs over us and
and uh hey, you got to come look at
this. And we discovered, okay, there's
something going on here. And if it
wasn't for him, we would not have
figured out the dog whistle. We have not
have progressed where we're at. He it is
because of him that we've arrived here.
Sounds like an ingenious. Sounds like a
cool guy to hang out with.
Oh, yeah. He's he's a very very cool
dude. Um, and the other one, uh, is Mr.
D. He, uh, made a discovery with the
signals. So, for a while, we couldn't
detect the UAPs with radar.
Actually, the radar was detecting them,
but not telling us it was detecting
them.
And, uh, Mr. D figured out, hey, we can
detect signals from these craft and
geollocate them or direction find them
in the sky and then put the camera on it
and there it is. So those are really the
two pioneers that like I feel like it
it's not fair if I don't mention them
because they are the pioneers here,
right? I am merely the person who
harnessed their knowledge and their
pioneering attitude and capabilities to
arrive where we are at today.
If this is an advanced species and is
smart enough to do what it's doing, they
have the upper hand and we are the
little ants under the magnifying glass.
We had a [music] class 7 UAP. We went
ahead and launched the Hilo to pursue
it. Before the Hilo got here, it
actually came and hovered right over us.
For the first time, we saw a class 7
with a naked eye. It was very glinty,
looked [music] metallic. Through our
optics, we've always thought it was
purple or black. Frankly, the
reflections look like uh chrome [music]
almost color. So, you mentioned
simulating war games and these UAPs show
up. Do you think, and obviously you get
into speculative territory and, you
know, kind of philosophy and I really
want to get into kind of the hard data
because that's what you guys sort of
specialize in, but you think that might
um kind of show that we're living in
some sort of threebody problem universe
or something where they they don't want
us to harm ourselves. You know, they
show up around nuclear sites. Uh they
seem to um across the US, but even in
abroad as well. And does that signal
that they don't want us to, you know,
blow ourselves up or something or why
why do you think they show up around
these sort of war games? So, we have
some ideas on that and I I have some
opinions on that. We'll say, uh, for
example, in 2021, the first time we saw
them, we're running a war game for the
government. Uh, the deliverable for the
war game was tactics and we had a blue
team and a red team. The blue team's job
was to bring Americanmade, uh,
government made and commercial made. um
protective systems for blue forces.
Think air defense, think counter drone,
think other things. And then the red
team was again Americanmade as well as
oneoff hobbyist type drones, uh aircraft
and other things. And and the red team's
job was to penetrate the airspace of the
blue team or react cause them to uh be
able to basically tactically envelop the
blue team and cause them to have a loss.
And the blue team's job was to stop
that. And uh so we're running this event
and I'm up on the roof of a very tall
building with two young interns with
binoculars looking for drones. Right. So
we're up there I think we are two weeks
into the project at this point every day
12 hours a day running the war game and
we are looking for drones uh as the as
the mission controller project
controller if you will. So I can
modulate launch now don't launch now or
hey uh hey blue team did you guys even
pick up on that drone that was just
here? So, I'm trying to modulate the the
exercise and keep things flowing so we
can be effective in developing tactics.
And my camera operator, Mr. Ko, was
like, "Hey, you have to come see this.
There's something going on." Um, so
understand, we're up on the roof
scanning the sky with binoculars,
listening, seeing, and and we see
drones, but we don't see this other
stuff.
So, I go down to the truck and he's
like, "Look at this." And he shows me uh
the class one formation of seven, the
first sighting we had. This was the last
day of the event, so we were shutting
down a few hours later.
And just for the audience, class one,
class one's the tetra.
Okay.
So, uh, it's a blackbodied object. It
tumbles and spins at a very high rate of
speed. We're shooting at about 26 frames
per second, I believe. And between each
frame, it's changed drastically in its
flight characteristics and signature so
that we can only we can only see a
little bit of it and and we can't really
derive the shape. It looks like a
tetrahedrin, but it's really hard to say
from the footage we have. Um, it looks
like a tetrahedrin that has is wearing a
hat. And the hat looks like it's made
out of atmosphere. As in uh uh if you
have a low a low pressure high pressure
differential, you can get vapor,
right? As in when a fast moving jet
breaks the speed of sound, you see the
vapor on the wings.
That same effect looks like what we're
seeing around the class one. And it
basically wears it like
um like some kind of field is holding it
in place and it's kind of there around
it kind of hiding the black body from
from this the the observer if you will.
So and then that vapor tends to flash.
Uhhuh.
Uh it catches uh as it's moving kind of
violently. It catches the uh the sun's
rays I believe and reflects back. So
that was actually what he saw was he was
looking in the sky for drones, thinking
nothing about UFOs, UAPs, or anything
else, and saw a flashing and said, "What
is that?" Zoomed in and like, "Oh, wow.
There's seven of these craft in a tight
formation maneuvering on us, right?" And
again, I told you I was on the roof with
interns with good ears and good eyes,
better than mine. We're not seeing a
thing. So the human senses, there was
nothing there. But these things flew
probably
two or three thousand feet above above
us and we had no idea they were there at
all. a drone a drone of the same size in
the same flight formation would have
been
blaringly obvious glaringly obvious,
excuse me. So it would have been so
obvious that we couldn't have missed it.
So UAP by definition is, you know,
unidentified.
Yeah.
Um and it's even broader than UFO
because it's aerial phenomena. When you
see these sort of tetrahedron like, you
know, things in formation as you're
simulating war games, is your first
instinct, oh, this is some
state-of-the-art technology that's
probably Russian or Chinese cuz there's
a lot of reasons for them to want to
see, you know, the red team, blue team
stuff that we're doing at home here in
the US, right? Or is your first instinct
this is not this is not from here?
I'm kind of all over the map, frankly.
uh I get conflicting signals if you will
from the data we're seeing. Uh none of
the rabbit holes I call them if you go
down the hey it's made in America rabbit
hole doesn't make any sense. I've been
on project and had special programs
without telling us bring their secret
things to our event.
And so when we are exposed to that
technology, which has happened several
times, it's usually, hey, you signed an
NDA. Don't talk about it. Don't share
it. Delete that data. They're going to
tell your interns. I don't know have a
clearance. I know anything. Yeah.
And we're just going to write it off and
move on. Right.
Right. And nobody has done this for the
UAPs.
Right. And uh it should be noted that
we go to events and have gone to events
over the years where the government has
been there already on another project.
Yeah.
And we show up day one and they have
UAPs all over their event and they have
no idea.
Yeah.
Because they're not looking for them.
They don't know they're there. They're
very hard to see. If you don't know how
to spot them with your technology,
you're not going to be able to even see
them or or acknowledge that they're in
your airspace.
So it's either adversary or NHI,
right? I would take it I would take it a
step further and say it's not either or
necessarily.
It could be both.
Interesting.
Right. And I would also offer that what
we are seeing my observations and and my
team's observations are that whoever or
whatever is controlling these is probing
our capabilities.
So it's not like uh you know if I see a
class one it doesn't just stay in a
straight azmouth and fly north to south
like it's was already flying. Okay. No,
it um approximates us at the edge of our
active telemetry systems like a radar
and jammers and other equipment that may
or may not be present during whatever
kind of event we're running.
It will approximate on the edge of that
effective bubble
and then fly through the um fly through
the the bubble of effect.
Wow.
So, they're putting themselves in beam
of our systems.
Yeah.
And there's very few reasons why you do
that from a defense perspective. They're
gathering information
probably. I mean, there's there's not a
whole lot of reasons why you would put
yourself if I have the secret stealth
technology. If I have an F-35, am I
going to fly it to Russia and buzz
Moscow and get on their radars and let
them quantify what my F-35 looks like?
Right.
I would I would I'm not an Air Force
guy, but I would imagine no. I imagine
that would be dangerous. Not because
they're getting shot down. That's
obviously a problem, but also because
now they know precisely how I look on
their radar, which means they can
weaponize that to detect me in the
future, right?
Right.
As you know, I'm always on the hunt for
things that help me stay sharp, focused,
and full of energy while I'm diving into
life's mysteries and making this show
happen. And I've got to say, Mudwater
has completely transformed my mornings.
Back in the day, I used to struggle with
that post coffee crash. And let's not
even get into the caffeine jitters.
Mudwater gave me the smooth, steady
energy I was missing. It's packed with
functional mushrooms like lion's mane,
chaga, and rayi. Plus, turmeric and
cacao all working together to keep me
focused, calm, and grounded. Honestly,
it's like coffee went on a yoga retreat
and came back zen. What I love most is
that it's not just about replacing
coffee. It's a whole new ritual. It's a
simple, nourishing way to start the day.
and I actually look forward to it every
morning. Every ingredient is USDA
certified organic, vegan, non-GMO, and
there's zero sugar. It's energy that
doesn't mess with your sleep or make you
question your life choices at 3:00 a.m.
Ready to make the switch to cleaner
energy? Head to mudwater.com,
that's mudwt.com,
and grab your starter kit today. Right
now, our listeners get an exclusive deal
up to 43% off your entire order, plus
free shipping and a free rechargeable
frother when you use code Jesse. That's
right, up to 43% off with code Jesse at
mudwtr.com.
After your purchase, they'll ask you how
you found them. Please show your support
and let them know we sent you. Keep your
energy natural and refreshing all year
long with mud water because life's too
short for anything less than clean,
delicious energy. So,
it's like the that whole thing, the
Chinese spy balloon of uh you know, I
think it was 2023, January 2023, where
you had this balloon. It was flying over
the illusian island chains in Alaska.
And I think it was probably uh figuring
out the limits of our radar detection
because that's where we had our ICBM
detection method, state-of-the-art
stuff. And so if you have this balloon,
you can figure out, you know, what's
reflecting back, you know, at what
distance are we actually picking up, you
know, where, you know, where they are.
Um, and that's that's really valuable,
right? And then it ends up flying over,
I think, Montana where you obviously
have Malmstrom and all these, you know,
other kind of Minutemen bases. So, uh,
that's interesting. So when you say it's
kind of a false dichotomy adversary and
NHI,
does that mean the NHI could be
adversary? Does that mean Russia, China
are somehow partnered with the NH? Like
your mind goes into all these different
possible kind of you know variations or
permutations of that. Do you guys have
kind of a base case there or
No. So there's too many variables really
to understand. We we have five years of
data, terabytes of radar, imagery,
video, photos, signals, intelligence, if
you will, RF, we've collected, direction
finding, all this different all these
different categories of data. Um, and
even with that kind of data and that
kind of time, we don't have enough data
yet to tell us the answer. And I would
offer the reason for that is we're not
running scientific test events, right?
There's a distinct differentiator there.
Right now, we're running an operation,
right? An operation means I have just
enough personnel to man the equipment to
do the task
and then we're going to uh uh record
what they collect while they're running
that operation and doing that task and
then we're going to post analyze it.
A test event would be I would have extra
people with clipboards and whistles and
scientists on looking over our
shoulders. I'd probably have double or
triple the the the the labor footprint
and they would have a series of test
event uh criteria objectives that were
pre-coordinated and they would come out
and ensure that we capture all the data
and it's all meticulously done and then
after the event we write a report and do
the thing
I would offer that we strive to arrive
at a test event and the reason why we
strive is it's very expensive. Yeah,
I have to double or triple my cost now
in labor to pay people to come out and
run a test event, which is very hard to
do as a commercial entity.
The government does it all the time
because the government has endless
wealth, right? Uh as a commercial
entity, like where does that money come
from,
right? Especially as a private
enterprise who is not uh selling
anything to the government right now or
doesn't have a relationship
and and then I would offer it's further
compounded by we have been contracted in
the past by the government to collect
UAP data. Um, and those contracts had
nothing to do with UAPs,
right? We continued running war game
events or other events for the
government when all they really wanted
was UAP data,
right? So, so I say that because uh I
don't foresee any future, at least in
our current paradigm, where the
government's going to say, "Hey, James,
hey Skywatcher, uh, we want you to go
collect UAP data at whatever location
and give us that." That that has not
happened to my knowledge, and I know of
nobody that's had a contract like that.
Instead, it's
can you tell us what's on our airspace?
Uh, can you run a war game?
Um, so because of that mismatch in
reality and the inability of our
bureaucracy and decision makers to
directly upfront the situation of UAPs,
instead they have to be surreptitious
about it and talk right,
you know, kind of circular about it.
Yeah,
that actually befuddles our ability to
have a test event or TE um or test
evaluation where we have a large body of
people present,
right? Yeah, it's frustrating. You have
to kind of talk about it in a circular
way and you can't just kind of go go to
the heart of the matter because it's not
even acknowledged at the highest levels
of our government still, which is
I'd say I'd say it's even deeper than
that.
The uh there's really three three
categories of people
when you talk about UAPs. You have one
category which is religious. In the
religious category, you'll often find um
people who are very intelligent, very
smart, like normal people.
Yeah.
Um but they tend on this topic to assign
a religious filter to the lens they're
looking at it through.
Right. And and the challenge there is
you're going to get somebody saying,
"Well, you're talking to angels and
demons. You're you're interfering with
God."
Instead of, "Hey, what is the science
behind what you're seeing?"
Right? And so that lens can be
detrimental to us. being effective with
that group. The other group is um the
group that thinks everything's man-made
and made in China, made in Russia, made
in the US, right? Um that group also has
a lens and they look at through a
national security lens. Yeah.
And so they they think, well,
Skywatcher, you're revealing national
secrets. You're sharing too much detail
here and and uh subverting the national
defense,
right? And so again, they're
close-minded because they don't want to
discover more because they they feel
like they're patriotic and
nationalistic, but really
um they're anti-science almost.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
And then the third category of people
are people who are truly open-minded who
can put aside preconditions, pre-beliefs
or things maybe from their upbringing or
personal beliefs and just study science
and let let the observations and
observables tell them what it is.
Yeah. Um, and so you never know who
you're going to get, which is why, like
I said, we have to be circular. Yeah. In
our true objectives when we speak with
these officials because they are not
prepared to to speak with us in truth.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, it's well said. It
feels like it's kind of a sila and
correct two failure modes are on the one
hand, yeah, maybe being too mired in
past dogma, uh, you know, kind of
religious fundamentalist dogma. And then
on the other hand, it's like atheist
materialist reductionism, nothing, you
know, it's all nuts and bolts and
there's nothing else or something. It's
total close closed-mindedness kind of in
both directions or something. And uh an
approach that is kind of open-minded and
and just data driven I think is is is
great. Um, another question this begets
and then I want to get into the the core
data because I think you guys have a lot
of interesting stuff there but um is
like so if that's a spectrum the like
materialist and the you know kind of
religious thing I think there's also a
spectrum of they're all good and they're
all bad
and uh to me AAM's razor is it's
probably just like humans it's probably
there's a mix of like there's there's
good and there's bad or something and so
I don't know if you have a take there
but you have like Lou Alzando you know,
longtime, you know, OAP, ATIP, you know,
modern modern day UFO whistleblower who
is for for a while at least was more on
kind of the the threat narrative. And
then you have Steven Greer who uh you
know has known Jake for a while and um
you know he's more on the like I just
interviewed him. He's like it's all
they're all good and um I would say it's
it's probably in between those two, you
know, like the answer can't be all good
or all bad or something. So I I don't
know if you have a take there.
Yeah. Yeah, for sure. So some of the UAP
we've observed just maneuver through the
airspace and depart,
right? So that's really like hard to
determine friend or foe. Who is it?
Which is why um for a long time we were
very secretive with this. We thought
what we were seeing was red or blue,
right? We assumed that it was man-made
and it was a weapon system being
utilized on us to see what we would
observe or learn from it. That isn't
necessarily the case in our minds
anymore. But that's why we kept
everything very secretive to protect
national defense.
Right? Now that we've understood some
new things, we've kind of come out, if
you will, and are more open about what
we're observing, which is why which is
why we're public now.
So, um, so the class one just moves
through. We don't see any adverse
reactions or really many interactions
with the class one. It will dodge our
lasers if we shine lasers at it, but
that's as much interaction as we'll get
from that class at UAP. There are other
classes who have interacted with us in a
negative manner.
Some of them interact I think
inadvertently negative with us
as in they're emanating uh perhaps
through their technology they're
emanating uh electromagnetic waves that
are and energy that are interfering with
our equipment. So it's more of an area
effect. So I feel like it's probably not
on purpose.
And then there's another class that's
actually hit us with a microwave weapon.
So actually shut down our systems.
Turned everything to the off position.
Wow.
Right. That's a very deliberate. Now, is
that defensive or offensive? Right. Is
it uh shutting us down to protect itself
or shutting us down to uh uh to
understand how we'll react?
Yeah. It's so interesting. It's like you
get into all these philosophical
questions of are they prepping the
battle space or are they showing us that
our our ways are brutish and our war
games need to stop or something cuz we
might, you know, blow ourselves up. And
it's just really it kind of boils down
to philosophy. And so I do think you
know gathering data is good. But it does
bring up this interesting question which
is from my limited experience with you,
you seem like very uh like practical and
very data oriented and um like just kind
of the uh preeminent kind of
practitioner like where you you want to
find an answer. You don't want to get
caught up in you know necessarily like
uh crazy kind of philosophical
discussions. I've spoken with Jake a
little bit before you and it does feel
like this kind of spiritual journey for
him. I've spoken with Alex Clo who I
know you know is working with you guys
as well. It seems like kind of a
spiritual thing for him. How do you
reconcile that? You know, is it good to
have kind of a mix as far as you know
the team you want, you know, some guys
who are a little more philosophical,
some guys who are kind of more
executionoriented or how do how do you
view that? Because it does feel like a
lot of people who get into the UFO
subject and study it from the government
perspective like OAP with you know
Skinwalker Ranch, they come in like
maybe like oh we're just going to figure
some stuff out and they come out I don't
want to say more religious but more like
reverential like where they're like like
I you know I went and then I got a
little spooked honestly. I had a weird
month after I went and it kind of put
the fear of God in me with this stuff.
So yeah, I guess how do you think about
all of that?
So let me actually take a step back to
our origin story.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Right. So I'm not a whistleblower. I
never held a clearance in the government
related to anything or was right onto
anything with UAPs whatsoever. My
government experience is frankly just
made me the person I am
who can who who can be open-minded and
observe and report, collect and
understand. Right. So it's kind of
that's kind of a unique position to be
in. Unlike David Gesh or Jake Barber,
others Lou Alzando, I have no
whistleblower story at all. Everything
we've done for Skywatcher is 100%
commercial activity. Y
that commercial activity might be in
support of a government event again
unrelated to UAPs because the government
has said look thanks thanks for the
observation. We have nothing on this.
Right. Mhm.
So SkyWatcher truly is a technology
company that was started because of UAP,
right? So if you look at Andrew, you
look at Khaki, you look at Boeing,
Lucky, all these other bigs, um they
were started for national defense
purposes,
right? So they started with a
preconceived notion of I want to spot a
stealth aircraft. I want to spot a MiG
31. I want to spot a supersonic missile.
And they work backwards to develop
technology for that purpose. M
Skywatcher conversely has started with
we're looking at an unknown enemy weapon
system or weapon system or thing in the
sky. We don't know what it is
and we don't have a good signature of
what that looks like and we want to
detect that.
So what we did is we consulted with
industry experts, pioneers in their
craft,
uh academia, some sants and said here is
a classified drone threat. Here's the
parameters I need to measure. How do we
design a system that will actually
detect this drone threat and enable us
to uh uh understand more about that
threat?
So for 3 years we have been developing
SkyWatcher as a technology
right that basically flips the paradigm
on its head. Instead of saying I want to
track a MIG 31 we're saying
I want to know what that thing is in the
sky that nobody knows is there and I
want to quantify it. So Skywatcher
actually was uh my cover term for UAPs,
right? Uh I have briefed VCs, I have
briefed uh high net worth individuals, I
have briefed the government on
SkyWatcher as a technology without ever
saying the word UAP
because again when we thought that the
UAPs might be a national defense
problem.
Yeah.
We approached it from a veil of secrecy.
And Skywatcher was how we would converse
with people about technology development
that's really slated for UAP detection
and tracking. So we are a technology
company rooted in
unexplainable unknown physics and trying
to understand that from a defense
perspective.
Right? So because of our scientific
approach to this we have a lot of data
and we uh we don't have a lot of uh room
for
areas that don't have data.
Right? So what I mean by that is as I
said in the episodes, uh I'm not a
believer.
I don't want to have faith in this. I
don't want I don't want to have to trust
me, bro, and like see, you know, believe
you when you tell me. No, show me the
data and then I'll know and I'll have
knowledge and then I can understand.
You know how we're always diving into
the edge of science and consciousness on
this show?
Lately, I've been thinking a lot about
aging, not just in terms of years, but
in how it actually feels in the body.
Slower recovery, lower energy, that
middle-aged fog that sneaks up on you. I
feel like I can barely go out and drink
alcohol anymore. That's why I started
using something called qualiaenolytic.
And it's been a major shift for me. Let
me explain. As we age, our bodies
accumulate what scientists call
scesscent cells, also known as zombie
cells. These are worn out cells that
stop dividing but don't die. They hang
around in your body, draining your
energy, clogging up your recovery, and
generally making you feel older than you
are. Qualiosenolytic is a
firstofits-kind supplement formulated
with nine plant-based compounds designed
to help your body naturally eliminate
these zombie cells. It's not something
you take every day, just 2 days a month,
but it supports your body in aging
better at the cellular level. Since I've
started taking it, I've felt sharper,
lighter, and like my body's resilience
has come back online. It's vegan,
non-GMO, and grounded in serious
research. Experience the science of
feeling younger. Go to
qualityife.com/jessie
for up to 50% off your purchase and use
code jessie. Again, that's Jes.
That's qu u a l i a l i f e.com/jessej
ss e for an extra 15% off your purchase.
Thanks so much to Qualia for sponsoring
this episode.
So on the UAP side in terms of Craft in
the Sky, I think we have that
right. Um and and I say that
the episodes we've produced, why did we
do that? Uh, Alex and I had a
conversation about this and I was very
insistent as was he like
we have four four and a half years of
data.
Yeah.
Right. It sits on a drive in a certain
place and
that's also important for the audience
to understand that you've been at this
for a while. You
the public reveal was more recent but
you've been at this for almost 5 years
now.
Five years. Yeah.
The analysis of that data is ownorous.
It's hard to do. It's expensive. And
Gary Nolan talked about that today at
the hackathon about how hard data is.
Even his data that he has, it's very
hard and expensive. said there's a real
monetary cost to do to conducting the
analysis and doing it scientifically. So
the data is great to have but analyzing
that data is very hard. So instead as an
interim we've decided to video and
document the activities as they unfold.
And so out of at great cost uh to our
own business and uh expense if you will
in time and energy and effort we have
documented these things so that when the
data is released scientifically they
have a backstory to understand how the
data was collected because again the d
the scientific report a white paper um a
scientific journal saying a thing is
just a snapshot and most people have no
clue what that means in terms of general
public but if they can re reference a
video that covers that place in time of
that event unfolding where that data was
collected. Now it tells a whole story.
Now you have the anecdotal, you have the
literal live imperfect experience as
things unfold and then you have the post
very scientific data analysis that
actually covers down exactly explicitly
the analysis of how that event unfolded.
Yep. And I want to get into the data.
Final question before we dive into the
taxonomy and all the classes which I'm
really excited about is uh Jake Barber.
How did you partner up with Jake and
how'd you meet him?
So uh I was very cautious for a long
time of who I would meet with or talk
with. Uh I actually met with Gary one
time and did it in a way that
frankly made him very uncomfortable.
Okay, because who's this guy meeting me?
Like he he was a little freaked out
because I was very secretive and very uh
spy versus spy type of meetings. Okay.
um with Gary and then I also uh ran into
some congressional staff members did the
same thing of like I I don't want to be
on your calendar but I want to like your
your congress person is saying publicly
that they want this well I have it let's
talk
um but again we kept everything in the
IC and very secretive
[clears throat]
um so first I met Gary and then I met
Alex and then after we we met uh Jake
and I met when we started forming the
the company uh Skywatcher as a as a
private entity Cool. All right, let's
get into the data. So, uh, you guys just
released a video, um, that's just
fascinating where you have nine classes
of UAP that you described. Uh, can we go
through them class by class? Are you
cool with that?
Yeah, that's fine. That's fine.
And, um, I don't know if you remember
all of them off the top. I have a
picture on my phone if you know all
Okay, I love it. Um, awesome man who
knows his craft. Okay, so uh, no pun
intended. So, uh, uh, uh, let's go with
class one.
[music]
Class one is the tetra.
Uh the tetra does have uh different
characteristics
than just multiband imagery. So electro
optical which means daylight camera
usually with a little bit more uh
bandwidth if you will. So it can see a
little bit more than the human eye can
see in in the visible spectrum.
Uh then we have middlewave infrared and
shortwave infrared. All three of those
sensors see the class ones and it
registers on all of them.
And then also we have radar that we see
the class one on.
Any typical behavior that the class ones
engage with? You mentioned they were in
a formation before any any other
interesting data that you have on them?
Yeah, so the class one tend to fly in
groups. We've seen one or two as a
singleton, but usually they're in groups
of three to 20.
Mhm. Um, and that group tends to fly
through in some kind of formation. And
it can be everything from four or five
craft lock seemingly locked together
maneuvering as a group with another
group. Uh, and even a third um, all the
way from that to looking like a V
formation like a stealth bomber would
look or a flock of birds, but clearly
doing UAP things that don't happen in
nature. M
um so we've seen them fly through uh in
those formations right over us,
right? So like most UAPs, they'll
deviate their flight path that we first
see them on. Then they'll come into beam
of our telemetry systems and we'll see
them on a map and we'll know exactly the
altitude, air speed, or excuse me,
ground speed, radar cross-section. and
we'll have all that data on that craft
at that time or that group of craft and
then we'll follow their flight path as
they fly right over us or right next to
us or whatever maneuver they're doing.
So, we'll see the class ones fly right
overs.
Um, you like I said, usually in a in a
formation of some kind.
Okay, class two, what are we looking at?
Class 2 is a tic tac. Um, so it's about
40 feet uh uh in length. Um we saw that
first in 22 and then in 23 and then we
didn't see them again till 25 till
February this year. We've seen them in
groups of one to three.
Um they don't appear to fly in formation
as much as arrive together in a group
and then uh depart as singletons.
So um really hard to say. We we don't
have a we don't know that we have them
on radar yet.
We have a lot of radar data. M
and for example in our February event we
had a class 2 which exhibited some very
strange behavior
which you'd never seen. Uh it actually
used the hills to hide from us and came
in hide from our primary sensors.
So we were watching jellyfish fly
through the sky and
started having interference with our
systems we believe from the jellyfish.
And then we had some weird radar blips
to the north of us. And so we started
looking to the north and then we saw uh
several UAP one of which was a tic tac.
So
so the tic tac we have laser range uh
finder returns on it
and we have it in multiple spectrums of
of imagery but we don't have any sigant
from it and we don't have any radar that
we know of from it.
Do you guys have infrared?
Yes. because and you have infrared of
the
tic tac
because yeah I think of Nimmits you know
2004 and I think that the best imagery
for that was thermal you know forward
looking infrared um 2004 case with David
Fraver and you know USS Princeton so
well well so what's interesting is the
government if they have it have never
released the electrooptical view of the
tic tac
I don't know their motivation whether
they have that footage or they have
chosen not to release it
they say they do
but but I'll Hey, in our footage of the
Tic Tacs, they are not a round cylinder
only,
right? They're actually more like a
porcupine.
Okay.
So, if you look at uh if you zoom in and
enhance uh the footage, you can actually
see little spikes all around the craft
around the perimeter of it.
Um
interesting.
You know, kind of riding this the the
surface of it. Um, furthermore, I talked
about in the other video, uh, the
episode that they they appear to bend
when they come out of hygiene maneuvers.
Whoa.
So, they're flexible or semi- rigid, if
you will.
I think you do you guys have video of
maybe that's the manta. I don't
remember, but I It feels like the thing
is bending in the video. Is Is that the
tick that?
I can see it. And Proixel did a good job
of zooming in, enhancing, and showing
that.
Okay. So, a little AI enhancement. Yeah.
Yeah. which we didn't do ourselves on
purpose.
Sure.
We wanted to give our government the
chance to say stop sharing this data
sensitive. So, we did a very controlled
limited release with footage that wasn't
the most spectacular.
Yeah.
Uh to give the government that
opportunity to ask us to rescend or
stop.
Have you gotten any calls to stop what
you're doing or
No, quite the opposite. I've sat in
meetings with various agencies of the
government very recently.
Yeah.
Um we do routinely.
Yeah. uh share a lot with the government
and I've asked the government to
nebulize me to give me an NDA. Yeah. To
tell us to stop uh make us, you know,
make give us some kind of indication or
even lately, hey, give us some talking
points.
Like what helps national defense on
this?
Yeah.
And I'll tell you, the government's
refused.
So I, you know, what does that mean? You
know,
I you know, in a much probably smaller,
more mini way than you've experienced,
uh feel the same way. I feel like uh the
lights are on but no one's home often
with the on the government with this
stuff where on the one hand you have
David Grush's claims and and and others
and honestly a lot of historical
evidence that we have real reverse
engineering programs we have saucers and
hangers like you know we know a lot
about this stuff and then on the other
side of the spectrum it's like you you
you continuously meet these people where
you're like oh that person should be
like one of the architects of this thing
or you know whatever you get into these
rooms and like it often feels extremely
frustrating where it's like no one knows
what's going on and if there's anything
you know we were talking about this
earlier like you know China has its own
centralized way even if you read the
threebody problem it's like they'll just
knock on the scientist door and say
you're coming with us right and in the
US you have these kind of private side
you know people innovating on you know
anything happening um and that's that's
it's always this kind of distributed
loose thing it's not this fully top-
down centralized system. So, it's it's
it's just so hard to make make sense of
how much the government actually knows
knows on this. So, is your sense that
they they don't know? Are they playing
dumb or what or
So,
it's I think it's kind of a mix. Okay.
Right. So, when I meet with the
government and and and ask them, usually
the conversation will go something like
James, nice to meet you. Let's talk
about the data you have. Let's talk
about what you're seeing. I'll lay out
online classes. Kind of give them like
probably 30 to minutes to an hour long
overview. And then they'll say, "Great.
Uh, since we're in a skiff, I'm going to
make a call to this other program has
all this knowledge and data on stuff,
and I'm going to ask them if anything
you have matches what they're doing."
And the answer is always no.
The answer is always they have no clue
what you're talking about. There's
nothing in inventory that matches what
you're describing.
Um, so yeah, we don't know, right? And
then usually what happens after that is
a deer in the headlights look.
I held a held a meeting recently where
there was a guy on the VTC in a
classified settings kind of smirking.
Uhhuh. Right. Um I thought he was
incredulous or thinking like thinking
negatively about what I was saying.
Turns out he was smirking because he
already has done his due diligence and
says like we have
no knowledge of any of this, right? As
in like may I think he may have even
said maybe this is off planet,
right?
Which is quite shocking when I'm in a
room with subject matter experts from
the government
on UAP and UAP tracking and history and
the answer they give me is maybe it's
off planet. and he says in a smirking
manner because like I said there's
different categories of people and even
in even in a room of people who are
studying or trying to learn about this
there's still that that edge where
there's a little bit of taboo for him to
say that I think it's off planet.
Yeah.
Right. So um
and I would also offer that typically
engineers and scientists are bad liars.
Usually they're not really good at
keeping a straight face and talking
around a topic.
Yeah. And I've purposefully affronted
several of them or confronted them with
some of our findings to see and measure
and kind of put them in a in the hot
seat to see if they have a a reaction
and the reaction I get from them is
typically very honest that they have no
idea what this is and these are people
that should know about it.
So
So do I think that there is uh
misdirection and and uh information
operations warfare type stuff happening?
I do believe there is that happening. Do
I think that there our government has um
some reverse engineering or technology?
Yes, I think that is the case.
But I don't think that that is
necessarily tied to what we're observing
in the sky. It's like the deeper you go
on this, you really have to you what I
think a lot of people expect in this
subject is for everything to tie
together so neatly and perfectly and for
you to have you know it's like the um
things you're seeing in the sky are the
things that we have on the ground are
the secret science things is the
consciousness stuff that we all kind of
intuit it might involve you know might
be the next kind of scientific paradigm
and it all fits together in this neat
thing and then also space aliens and
they're from Zeta articulate and you're
like, "Oh, it's easy." And in fact, all
of those things could be their own
disperate threads and it's just this
extremely wonky hard thing to to figure
out. And that the deeper you go in some
ways, the more confused you get, which
is cool. I mean, that's like any any
cool subject that's generative, but uh
it's not often the disclosure I think
people want. You know, they want this
like neatly packaged, you know, tied up
in a bow thing. And I don't I don't know
if that's ever coming.
Let's talk about a guilt-free
alternative to alcohol that's perfect
for your dry January or anytime you want
to unwind. Cornbread's organic CBD
gummies. These gummies are an absolute
lifesaver for my evening routine.
They're a natural way to relax,
celebrate, or wind down without the
hangover. I've cut back a lot on my
alcohol consumption over the last few
years. For a lot of you trying out Dry
January or cutting back generally, it's
not always easy. But swapping that glass
of wine for cornbread CBD gummies is a
total gamecher. It's a simple upgrade to
your evening routine that leaves you
feeling great the next day without
sacrificing the fun. Plus, with all
natural ingredients, they're the perfect
way to stay balanced. Cornbread hemp
isn't just a product. It's a small way
to bring balance into your life. Whether
you're journaling, meditating, or simply
enjoying some downtime, these gummies
elevate the experience without any of
the guilt. It's like having a moment of
calm in your pocket, ready whenever you
need it. Alcohol doesn't have to be the
default anymore. Whether you're cutting
back for dry January or just looking for
a healthier way to relax, you've got to
try Cornbread CBD gummies. Right now,
American Alchemy listeners can save 30%
on their first order. Just head to
cornbread.com/jesse
and use code jesse at checkout. Again,
that's cornbread.com/jesse.
Code jesse. Cornbread hemp. This is the
good life.
Yeah. And I don't think that disclosure
is what com what what the common
populace thinks it is. So when we talk
about disclosure, we we released a
disclosure framework because it's our
belief that and our understanding and
our desire that
when we release data in scientific
studies, nobody should have to ask what
that means,
right? When a third party looks at our
data and reaches conclusions, nobody
should have to say what does that mean
that there's aliens? Does that mean that
um that uh the government knows what's
going on? like there should be some kind
of framework that covers what that means
and and that can be clearly articulated
this report and this data means this. Um
so that's why we laid out the the
disclosure framework.
But I would add a twist on that and that
it's my opinion that disclosure isn't
about
aliens. It's not about UFOs or UAPs.
It's my opinion Eric Weinstein I believe
has said that there's secret.
Yeah. secret physics or secret science
and I believe that that is the case. You
know that there's physics knowledge held
by aerospace companies that is not
there certainly is materials knowledge.
Materials well okay material
which involves topological physics or
whatever.
I think the the government's conflicted
right now our government.
Mhm.
And probably several others.
I think they have uh advanced secret
physics and and and knowledge and
science.
I agree with you
that that they've had probably since at
least the end of World War II. Mhm.
And through that science and
understanding have developed new
technologies.
And I think that disclosure from a
government perspective is about the
science being released and disclosed,
not about the technology.
So
yeah,
so it let let me make it really simple.
Let's say you're a Lockheed
uh program manager who has a secret
program with the government. And your
secret program involves physics that are
like nothing we have today that anybody
knows about.
And you're doing really crazy things for
national defense against our enemies and
to defend our homeland with this with
this knowledge.
And you're developing new sensors,
you're developing new aircraft, you're
developing new submarines, whatever it
is you're developing, you're doing it
with a physics that nobody understands.
Uh-huh.
Now, let's say you've been doing that
for 20 years. You're you're at a good a
good place in your career. You make a
lot of money. You're happy. You're
stable. But now the news and the public
zeist starts changing. And now there's
agents of the government hunting for you
because they think you're responsible
for this UFO phenomena, UAP phenomena.
They think that you somehow are using
your advanced physics to do uh
uh information operations warfare
against American populace. So, they're
actively hunting for you. So now you
just went from a patriot who loves his
family,
loves his country and is very smart in
developing technology or protecting
technology and science to the boogeyman
that has somebody hunting for them. And
so that locked engineer uh needs a
pressure relief valve.
Right? So I think we have reached the
point where our government has decided
that it needs to release
knowledge about the advanced physics and
advanced science but at the same time
needs to constrain that locked engineer
or scientist from revealing our national
secrets and protecting our national
defense.
So I think our government's conflicted
in that without saying it out loud
because by saying it they're
acknowledging that is true and no one
has told me this. I've arrived at this
position through years of discussions.
No one has ever said like, "Hey, here's
the case." I know nothing from the
government. In fact, all I ever get from
those is you're in the headlights and
questions answers.
Yeah.
Um,
so much of this resonates with my own
experience looking into this stuff.
So, yeah, I I think I think disclosure,
frankly, is less about a UAP flying in
the air and more about releasing the
techn the the the science. And how do
you release the science?
How does Skywatcher release the science?
I'll tell you we are a private company
privately funded. We have our own
technology and we have we're developing
our own technology
and as I stated in the beginning we are
rooted in and exist because of UAPs
being exposed to us.
Is that the government program? Was the
government is the government programmed
to expose us, Chinese, Russian, whatever
technology to to the layman, right, with
the right mindset so that they can
produce uh science based on it to
basically do disclosure fascinating of
how they're doing it.
Oh, that's so interesting.
Yeah. knowing that
yeah,
you know, hey, as we observe propulsion
technology or telemetry technology or
whatever we're observing that even if we
understand how they're doing it, we're
still 60 to 90 years behind them,
right? that is uh mind [__] excuse my
French, but like the idea that that's
their soft disclosure of secret science
is us through, you know, civilian
efforts like what you're doing, private
efforts, detecting what they're doing
and then working back from first
principles on how to build it and maybe
even building things that are emergently
adjacent or new compared to what they've
done over the last 60 or 70 years which
they can't admit to or own up to. That
is fascinating. Yeah, that's very
interesting.
And that's what I believe is happening.
I believe that's our role. I believe
that's why when I the government, they
give me no answers.
They just want to see, hey, what are
these guys going to come up with?
When they poke us, the bear or whoever
it is.
Um, and like I said, there's different
categories.
I think there's blue, I think there's
red, and I think there's other.
Yeah.
And I have an idea of which class is
which, but I don't want to share that.
Sure.
But I believe that there is a mixed bag
of what we're seeing.
Why do you feel like it's premature to
share that or why? I want the government
to have the chance to stop me
before I reveal
secrets. Right. So that's frankly why
we're holding back.
It's not cuz we don't have the data or
the knowledge. It's because we want to
do this responsibly.
Sure. Right. Yeah.
So um so again, disclosure is going to
be more about,
you know, we're making observations
right now. We made observations in in in
March and in February that revealed to
us the technology in play. And what that
means is I sat with a physicist from a
certain field looking over my shoulder
while I went frame by frame on one of
the UAP classes that we have not
revealed yet.
And that physicist was able to say,
"Wow, that's the technology being used.
That is how the propulsion works."
This is what the shape of the craft
means. Yeah.
Right. So no longer are we, oh, it's
magic. Okay. I can't replicate that
technology.
in that kind of
scale.
I don't know how they're propulsing.
Right. Now we can understand, okay, this
is why we can't see them sometimes
because perhaps they're using what we're
what we have observed. Yeah.
Right. So those observations tell us
something.
Yeah.
But it doesn't give me the science and
the tools to go make it and do it
myself.
Sure. So that is one of the things we
were doing at Skywatcher.
That's still fascinating though. I mean,
can you say anything about what that
scientist said about that specific?
I have to leave that have to leave that
uh let that go for a while. But it's
important to understand that part of
SkyWatcher is an applied physics,
applied science, if you will, where
we're working to understand the
technology behind what we are seeing.
And really, I actually said that wrong.
We're actually working to understand the
science behind what we're seeing
so we can understand the technology and
again let's say that that is a made in
America thing and that you know
some agency flew that through
specifically because of what we're
reporting we're seeing so that we can
release maybe to the world eventually
the science behind it so that innovation
can be made to move us forward as uh as
safely as we can
uh and responsibly as we can. Like is
that the the the quest here to to
pressure relief that project manager on
Lockheed, the mythical project manager
that I don't know exists
to pressure relief them and turn them
from the boogeyman into they can keep
all their technology secrets, all their
advancements
while we understand the science. And
like I said, we're 60 years behind.
Totally. Well, something else I hope
happens is I've talked to a couple of
those aerospace grey beard types and you
never know, you know, what they've
discovered, but you can sense that some
of them, you know, are higher conviction
on certain frameworks that aren't
publicly acknowledged. And what I sense
sometimes is that there's a, you know, a
feeling of, wow, like I feel high
conviction in some of these things. I
wish uh they were used more broadly in
civil side architecture and maybe we had
this kind of regressive cold war mindset
which doesn't even make sense now with
some of these frameworks because if
China and Russia are not at parody I
will say publicly and I'm sure fans will
get pissed at me that like we shouldn't
disclose something that is you know
extremely dual use and like could confer
some really big warfare tactical
advantage obviously but if they are at
parity and if there are ways to
implement some of this stuff civilside
and we don't have to send civilside
science off into this kind of culde-sac
of like not being productive because of
bad frameworks. It would be great to to
get some of this stuff out and I I I
also see those gray beards at times
being like I wish I could work more for
for humanity too. So I don't know if
you've experienced that or you know
so so yes um that is you know we do have
a certain level of look we'd like to
help humanity help our country we're
very patriotic um and and we're very
open about what we're trying to do which
is develop technology for national
defense and also at the same time if
through the science can we can discover
new technology
like we're all about proliferating that
like that's responsibly that's what we
want to do
the the I think our government is
constrained Right. Um the skies are not
classified and we are seeing things in
the skies. Those things seem to be there
all the time.
Um there's a very specific time of day
when we observe UAPs. They're not there
the other times of day.
Um
can you say what time or
I'll get I'll skip I'll skip that for
now.
Yeah. Yeah. But um the the point there
is
we could be on the ground looking up at
the UAPs with a camera ball and see them
when we see them on radar, right? So we
have three spectrums that we're seeing
them on with imagery and we see them on
radar. So that's four different methods
that we're tracking them with.
Then we get in a helicopter and go chase
them. I've chased probably about 15 UAPs
now in the last 60 days.
I wanted to ask you about this. Yeah.
So,
so when we chase them, we have never
seen a UAP from the air.
Wow.
Right. Now, um, airto-air intercepts are
hard to do.
I was not a PJ or F-16 pilot or anything
Air Force. So, I'm, you know, Army,
right? So, like I have zero experience.
I know a lot of skydiving and military
freef fall operations, but I've never
I've never been in an aircraft with with
with a motor trying to chase another
aircraft. We have Jake on your team, so
that's good.
Yeah. Well, he's a really good pilot,
too, right?
Yeah.
So, um so we've chased about 15 UAPs
and
and they evade us, right? But they evade
us because the ground can see them
evading from the air. We've never laid
eyes on them,
right? We're sitting there with
binoculars, sitting with uh sare
cameras. We're sitting there.
Why do you think that is? Um I think
that they have a method to be cloaked
from the air
and that method does not extend to the
ground.
Oh
right. And and and it's important to
understand. Okay. So we're seeing UAPs.
How would you even do that? It's so
wild.
It is wild. Right. We are seeing UAPs in
commercial airspace.
Mhm.
Right. At the same flight levels that
commercial aviation's flying at
that you cannot see from the air. Mhm.
So understand uh if we're in El Paso
working
Mhm.
and we see a UAP
you know, and I'm looking north and and
in El Paso, if you look north, actually
from where we're at in Sierra Blanca,
the last place we we were using, uh when
we look north, all we see are airliners
transiting because everyone transits the
border right there by El Paso, just just
north. So in the same airspace, we're
seeing UAPs. All right. So UAPs that the
pilots cannot see. Wow.
And I know they can't see them because
I've been probably about 200 meters from
a class 8 and the team's like, "Look out
your left window. The UAP is right there
and me and the pilot and and and and one
of my colleagues is sitting there
looking scanning every sector."
Then you can't see it.
There's nothing there.
Whoa. Is it Do you think any are you
picking it up from the ground with
normal optical sensors with cameras or
with kind of more exotic stuff or what
what are you picking it up?
So, it's the ones I described. Okay. The
radar and the three bands.
We should go through. Yeah. So you have
radar, you have infrared.
So you have shortwave infrared,
shortwave infrared,
medium wave infrared, and
electrooptical. Electrooptical can see a
little bit more than the human eye. And
I believe that the reason why the
electrooptical can see them and they
cannot is because that little bit of
extra is where they're actually emitting
light and in
where is so the human eye, I think, is
400 and 700 nanometers is the the range.
So where would this be on the
I don't know. The electrooptical would
be like
we haven't figured that out yet. Like we
haven't figured out where in the
spectrum
they are visible. Like I said, we're
running operation growing to the
science.
Okay. Okay.
So, um and I would even offer to jump
ahead a little bit in the class 7s.
Y
for it probably be like 350 to 750. It's
probably within the, you know,
Yeah, it's probably somewhere uh uh uh
like that. But um the class 7s for years
I thought we thought were blackbodied
objects
that emitted a purple and pink vapor of
some kind or reflection with white
tentacles jellyfish.
Yep.
Right.
Um recently in February we saw class 7s
with the naked eye.
I saw one with the naked eye. It looked
like uh uh a golden chrome looking
mirror that was highly reflective with
white tentacles. Then we picked up
binoculars and got high magnification
scopes on them and they looked bright
white but reflective. So under each
observation method we get a different
return on what we're seeing. It's not
consistent.
Right? So it's not a black body. I don't
think I think it's white
like the tic tac and like the egg and
like other things that are out there.
But that tells you the the the hard
problem we have here. We're trying to
detect a craft that isn't consistent
across bands,
right? And it's very hard to image at
the same distances we are seeing these.
If we see a drone, which again we
started this with drones or a bird,
we see lots of birds or balloons. We've
released balloons too
or aircraft
at the same distances. We'd be able to
distinguish flight uh control surfaces,
engines, uh exhaust.
Yeah.
And we're not picking that up with the
UAPs.
Y
right. So, we have a team sitting
outside of the talk when we're running
these operations with scopes and cameras
and they might catch a snippet for like
2 seconds of a UAP, but that's really
all they're able to to see unless cuz
UAPs typically are 5 km minimum away
sometimes. Um,
uh, you know, approximately 10,000 ft
above ground level, right? Whatever that
is in meters.
Um, so they're not nearby,
right? And often when we do see them or
when we did see them with the naked eye
in the few times we have they're very
reflective.
So actually using the sun's glint to
spot them is one of the methods we use
and and should help us indicate that
maybe we can't see them in the naked
eye. Maybe all the naked eye sees are
reflections.
Oh, that's so fascinating. So
interesting. Makes me think of this Carl
Sean thing where he's talking about like
you're seeing a shadow of the thing.
you're not seeing the thing itself. He's
I think it's like a platonic solid. He's
using like a tesseract example and
you know that's just and there like you
know there are this comes up and it's
very theoretical but like holographic
theories or principles you grush even
mentioned it in his congressional
testimony. The framework uh that I'm
familiar with for example is something
called the holographic principle uh both
uh it's it deres itself from general
relativity and quantum mechanics and
that is if you want to imagine uh a 3D
object such as yourself casting a shadow
onto a 2D surface uh that's the
holographic principle so you can be
projected quasi projected from higher
dimensional space to lower dimensional
it's a scientific trope that you can
actually cross literally as far as I
understand but there's probably guys of
PhDs that we could probably argue about
that.
[music]
Class three, what what are we looking
at?
Class 3 is the blob.
Yep.
So, it's a I describe as Pepto-Bismmo
colored cloud.
Yeah.
And in the center of the cloud is uh
like a filament that looks golden almost
like a flame. Looks like it's a
cylinder. Maybe has corners. Really hard
to tell. And uh this object uh uh like
the class one and the class 2 um does
fly in a stable trajectory but while
it's flying in that trajectory it's
vibrating
vertically and horizontally very fast.
So it moves from point to point
instantaneously
as it moves along a stable trajectory.
And when I say stable trajectory, maybe
it's maybe it's flight path is 80 knots,
right?
But on imagery and on radar, it is
bouncing all over in a perhaps like a
like a tube almost like it's in the
subway and you took like the Tasmanian
devil and threw him in the subway and
said, "Go downtown. He's going to bounce
all over the subway while he moves down
that that that tubular uh tunnel there."
Um that's kind of what we're seeing in
the sky. Interesting.
Right. So, as the Tasmanian devil
bounces all over the tunnel, he's still
moving at a certain speed, but point to
point, he's all over the map,
right?
But within a constrained area,
it's fascinating.
So, the the class 3 um
uh we've never seen one up close.
Yeah.
We don't know why it vibrates and how
it's vibrating, but for sure it is
vibrating because we have it on imagery
and on radar showing it vibrating. Um
and um that does meet the threshold of
several of the five characteristics or
maybe six characteristics of UAPs and
that it's instantaneous movement from
point to point that again there's no
contrail there's no visible propulsion
it's just moving you know and we've had
to ask ourselves and it's still a theory
is is everything in the sky you know a
holographic projection
is all just just the government or a
government messing with our heads making
us think we're seeing something and all
it is
plasmids from space-based lasers, uh,
making shapes and they're bouncing them
across the sky to throw us off or make
us think a thing.
Um,
I accept that that could be a
possibility,
right?
Um, because what we're looking at with
the class 3 defies any known physics,
any known logic
of how it's maneuvering. So, is it
really there?
Is it is it, like I said, a plasmoid
with lasers, or is there actually a
physical craft there moving across the
sky? They'd have to be, if the
government were doing that, they'd have
to know where you guys are and then like
be trying to spoof you or something,
which I guess is possible, but uh you
know, I don't know. That's that's
fascinating. Um, do any of these classes
are they attributed more to the psionic
assets calling them in versus the
machinebased? Like is is it like the
case I'm just an example the jellyfish
only shows up with the machinebased
thing or the psionic asset only attracts
you know this particular class is that
can he can he do those sort of
attributions do you have data against
that
so we have four and a half years of data
with no psionics involved at all.
Wow.
Right. So
okay so was that was all machine based.
Yeah. Yeah. When we were running these
government events nobody there was doing
anything psionic and if they did they
wouldn't have the clearance and they
couldn't be there anyway. Right.
probably wouldn't allow them to be
present and I probably wouldn't have
hired them on my team to come help run
the event if they were doing those
things. Um
so
um four and a half years has no psionics
whatsoever. We have eight classes with
that. That said, once we started doing
this uh in a very open mindset of uh
while I'm not a believer, I'm completely
open. Like I've described several
obscure theories that could hold true.
Whether it's a holographic
projection, whether it's offplanet, on
planet, all these different theories. We
have to
like I don't have to believe all of
them, but I have to accept that they
could be true. We have to be completely
open-minded here.
Yeah.
To include on the psionic side.
Yeah. And what I would offer is on the
psionic side, I have had personal
observations of things that this that
the psionic team has done that appear to
validate that their methods work.
One example is um uh in August uh one of
our principal psionic assets, Jordan,
apparently called in a craft and it
could be an egg. I don't know what it
is.
And he's wearing a covering on his face.
He's under a patio. He can't even see
the sky. Uh or wa I'm looking now
looking at him and he's having these
experiences. And then Fred Baker was out
on the back patio watching the sky while
he hears Jordan freaking out down there
on the beneath the the porch down there.
And and Fred independently is like, "Oh,
there it is." Because Jordan said where
to look in the sky. And Fred looked and
saw an object.
Wow.
And videoed it. We didn't have the all
of our equipment. It's very expensive to
procure. So we had uh rudimentary
equipment at that event and well we
caught rudimentary observations, right?
So but
Jordan called it out literally said this
is where it's at in the sky. This is
what's happening. Here it is. And
there's some other things that go with
that.
But point being okay, how does that how
do you reconcile that? They reconcile
the entire event.
Yeah.
Right.
Um fast forward to February. Well, we
ran an event in January without with the
equipment with with no dog whistle and
we got zero results, right? So, we have
run events 24 hours a day. We've run
events without the dog whistle, but the
same technology and play
and we don't get UAPs during those
times. It's only a very narrow part of
the day.
So, in February, up till February, I'd
never seen a UAP with a naked eye ever.
Yeah. Wow. Wow.
In five years of doing it, it was always
through through a sensor.
Yep. Um in February we actually had the
for for the first time the dog whistle
paired with psionic assets.
And while we can't say definitively that
the psionic assets were responsible for
the results we got.
Sure.
For the first time they approximated
close enough to see them.
Wow.
They've never done that before. Now
there's too many variables, right? We
have to repeat this adnauseum until we
can say with with some kind of
scientific rigor that
cause and effect or causation.
Yeah. We also introduced more chaos. For
four and a half years, we had no
helicopter. I had no Jake Barber. I had
nobody to fly me up and go look.
And part of our frustration with the
government was we were underfunded
uh when we were funded by the government
for these events. And even when we were
funded explicitly by certain parties to
go look at UAPs,
we were still underfunded there. So, we
didn't have the capacity to go get a
helicopter or find Jake and and go fly
up to them. And and because we're not
Skinwalker Ranch, we are mobile. We are
nomadic. Mhm.
Um, and our end state is that we would
like to make contact with or retrieve
some of this material,
right?
So, you're not going to do that by
standing on the ground watching it and
being static,
right? So, we want to fly to them and
observe them. So, we introduced the
helicopter activity and that introduced
more chaos into the event,
right? So, just too many variables to
understand cause and effect with that
many variables being changed.
Yep.
Right. So, and one time when you were up
in a helicopter, the helicopter was sort
of frozen like it couldn't continue on.
Is that is that right?
We sent the Hilo out to intercept the
tic tac, but the first attempt failed
because our radar was being jammed by
the class 7 jellyfish.
Where did it where were we in the sky
the first time you saw that?
That was when [music] we were 7 km or so
out to the northwest 340 at that spot
that we went to.
And he kept trying to climb and we just
it wouldn't let us. Our helicopter
launched and about a half mile out, the
helicopter stopped moving. Enginees
running, blades are turning, but it
would not go forward. It would not go
up. It would not go left or right. It
was stuck there.
So, we've had several interactions with
UAPs in the air.
Um, first the the most prominent UAP we
see are the jellyfish, the class 7.
Um, when we chase them, they evade us.
Mhm.
Uh we have on video us flying towards
the class 7 and it changing it flight
path going into the wind, going
perpendicular to the wind and then
elevating away from us. You know, we're
moving at 80 plus knots and a little
bird and and
watching the class 7s with video and
with radar, we know it's air speed,
maybe it's 30 or 40 knots. We should be
able to air air to air intercept that
all day long,
but they consistently outrun us and
escape us. So, um, so we've had that
interaction. Then, yes, with a tic tac,
I'll I'll talk through kind of what
happened with the tic tac because it's
actually very interesting. Um, we had
observed the class 7s fly through our
radar beam and approximate our team
repeatedly over four or five days. I
believe it was four days.
The on the fourth day, the class 7, it
was actually very interesting. We had
nobody up on out up on the hill outside
of the talk. It was a barren hilltop.
The helicopter wasn't there. On the
fourth day, the class 7 came and hovered
over us for about 5 minutes. All right.
Now, um
that's never happened before. And it
hovered at about 800 meters over us so
we could see it with the naked eye for
the first time. As soon as we started
coming outside the talk to look at it
and grabbing other cameras to try and
image it, it started moving away.
All right. Now, understand the class 7
has some kind of inherent
uh apparently inherent uh microwave
energy that it's emitting. Right?
And that energy interferes with our
cabling between our systems, we believe.
So, we've h we've noticed an effect that
when the class 7 is present, we lose
connection to our sensors.
Um the the the high-end sensors that
we're removing it into.
So, our primary sensor didn't collect on
that class 7 while it was in hover or uh
uh you know over us. Um once it departed
the area, our sensors turned back on and
we were able to actually image it. And I
would offer we've never had that happen
before ever. We never had one
approximate and we never had our sensors
go down.
So we have all, you know, hundreds of
thousands of dollars of camera gear
inside the talk, right? And so here's
the team scrambling like like my our
primary sensor just quit working. And
now we're like, "All right, let's grab
the cameras and go image it." So
everyone's in a hurry trying to do that.
And and poor Rory is out there just
shooting all these videos and is, you
know, taking uh photos like, "Oh, this
is amazing." And talking through it. And
then we look at the camera and there's
no SD card in it and we realized because
they were our secondary systems like
we'd never seen one with these cameras
right they were there for emergency use
and we hadn't prepped them right um
sometimes through those errors you know
they're costly but you learn right now
we are prepared for our secondary
systems to become primary in case they
approximate again but we had to learn
that the hard way
right so we've seen the class 7s fly
through our airspace routinely and probe
apparently our active systems our
emanating systems
And so on the each day it seemed to get
more I would say aggressive but I don't
know that it's aggressive. It just got
more interesting.
So maybe the first day it flies over
over top of what our radar bubble should
be. Then maybe the next day it flies
over top maybe a little bit lower and
then deviates. You maybe it's coming
from the west and it heads north and
then and then later in the day it comes
in from the west and heads south as in
measuring our radar beam radar field.
Um, so that's the impression we got. And
then for the first time in February, we
saw two jellyfish fly together in the
radar and they offset from us equally.
So six kilometers north and south of us
and they flew right past us. Right.
So we're like, well that's pretty cool.
I've never seen them in pairs before. Y
and they're obviously interested in us
in the middle and they're putting
themselves in beam of our systems.
So then,
do they resemble the jellyfish that
Jeremy Corbel revealed a couple years
ago?
Not to us like that looks like a
shriveled up version of what we have.
Right. I would say, you know, our our
jellyfish are about 2 to 3 meters across
in the head.
Yeah.
Um I think they look like an aspirin
pill. I don't know.
Um and um the tentacles are about 5 m
long.
And I think the tentacles in your case,
if I'm visualizing it correctly, are a
little more dynamically moving than the
if you look at the Jeremy Corbell thing,
it's I think it's thermal imaging. And
they look like kind of stuck together
and like they're not like the the
they're not moving the tentacles.
Yeah.
Yeah. Well, so yeah, the tentacles seem
to flow a little bit more and that's
actually gets into like
I hate the word debunk debunker
debunking
because it starts with a premise of
we're going to prove you're a liar or
prove you're
incorrect instead of I'm going to
consume what you're saying. I'm gonna
make a fair and unbiased uh uh
estimation of the validity of that
information and then release those
results. So debunking to me is a
adversarial relationship, you know, and
um I think that there are paid debunkers
out there who are
too quick to come in and body slam and
present falsehoods because they don't
know the whole story and they're
assuming they do and they're assuming
some kind of mal intent on our side of,
hey, these guys must be liars. these
guys some kind of secret government
program. Uh none of it makes any sense
at the end of the day. But um the
jellyfish, what's very interesting is if
you take a balloon and release it into
the wind and watch it, which we have
done, the string will dangle below the
balloon. And why is that? Because the
balloon relative to the wind is blowing
in the wind. M
you might get some oscillation of some
turbulence or some uh uh different uh
winds at different levels as it
transitions through those uh winds, but
for the most part, you're going to look
at a balloon and you're going to see
basically like a lollipop, right? A
straight line coming down from the
strings.
If you take a helicopter and you conduct
uh operations like Jake does with a long
line
and you put that long line under weight
and you lift it up and start flying 60,
80, 100 knots, right? Um, the long line
with load, it's going to be maybe a 45
degree angle off the bottom of the
helicopter. It's going to be straight
because it's under it's under load, but
it's blowing back from the relative wind
pushing it back.
Mhm.
If you if you take that same helicopter
and release the payload from it, but
keep the long line and then fly into the
wind, something very interesting
happens.
Actually, the long line actually forms a
U shape
and the U is in the direction of travel
and that's because of the air pressure
on that long line builds up in the
middle of it. The surface area
uh uh becomes uh under enough pressure
that it actually bends the line
in the direction of flight. So that as
you're flying into the wind, it's like a
U or a C flying like a Pac-Man flying
into the wind. Right.
Yeah.
What's interesting about the class 7s is
we've released images of them with the
tentacles. sometimes being straight. And
then the same craft
when we know it's flying per
perpendicular to the wind in a swimming
motion,
the long line, the tentacles are
actually
in a in a Pac-Man, you know,
shape,
indicating that it is flying into the
wind or it's flying faster than the
wind. It's not floating with the wind.
So, as these debunkers try to come out
with their theories, um, sometimes it's
sad that they haven't done their basic
analysis and research,
and they're they're calling things
balloons that, you know, maybe one day
we'll find out it's a balloon, but it's
not your run-of-the-mill Myar bought at
Walmart. If it is a balloon, it's a
hybrid balloon that can
lift apparently and uh, maneuver against
and perpendicular to the wind at will
and ascend and descend. Yeah.
So, these are properties that normally
balloons can't do. So, am I saying it's
not a balloon? No. Y
but but if it is a balloon, it has to be
hybrid. Y
at least with our current understanding
of physics and there's something special
about it,
right? Some secret physics balloon at at
least.
Yeah. Minimum.
At minimum. Yeah. Yeah.
Proximity to it. It was saying don't
come any higher
cuz that was when I told you guys
elevate right
controls resisting.
That's fascinating. We were called out
to intercept an object that was on found
on radar. We went to the location it was
supposed to be at. We circled a couple
times and were requested to climb
another thousand ft. The instrumentation
started to bounce and the collective
basically was frozen.
And so you tried to you you guys flew up
and it was a class 7, right, that you
were chasing with the helicopter and
then there was it was like this it was
really interesting in this last video
you guys released there was like this
almost like barrier you couldn't get
beyond or something.
No. So, so to get back to the story,
um,
so we had class sevens, uh, on on the
fourth day, one hovered over us and we
went to bed that night thinking, what's
going to happen next?
Like, what happens? Like, okay, so
they've done everything that you could
do to indicate we're interested in you.
They've flown in beam. They must know
whoever's operating these so we can see
them. They must know that we're on the
hill looking at them. They
like for sure they must know.
When we fly a helicopter towards them,
they evade it. So they know that there's
there's some kind of action force
in the vicinity of them,
right? Some kind of action element us.
So on the fifth day, I went to bed
thinking what what's more aggressive? Is
it going to come down and land? Is it
going to blow us up? Is it going to hit
us with energy? Like is it going to send
us a text message? You like what's going
to happen with this AP that's more
aggressive than what it did so far? What
should we expect? Yeah.
And so that night, uh, Jordan, our
psionic, uh, lead, if you will,
uh, came up to me and Alex like, "Hey,
tomorrow we're going to see, you know, a
conflict in the sky. We're going to
have, uh, different UAPs are going to
come in and there's going to be
he sensed that.
He He said that.
Whoa.
And he said to me and Alex,
and I've since talked to Jordan. I said,
Jordan, never do that to me again. Ever.
Uhhuh. If you ever come up to me again,
bring a damn camera
with a detime group in the screen,
record you telling us this prediction
and then mail it to somebody outside of
our group so that there's proof that it
transited to a third party.
Because his prediction came true. Yeah.
Right. Literally, that's what happened
on the fifth day.
Uh we had jellyfish at a distance.
We had uh extreme I I'll just say uh
interference with our systems. M
uh typically we'd never seen jellyfish
interfere with us the last several
years.
Uh and uh up to this day, the the four
days preceding it, we had had mild
interference with our systems
disconnecting from the primary sensors
uh when the jellyfish were in vicinity.
But on the fifth day, the interference
was constant for two hours. And because
it's constant, we can't see the
jellyfish. Our primary sensor does not
doesn't connect. We can't use it.
So,
um,
we started looking to try and figure out
what's going on. That's when we
discovered the class 2 tic tac and the
manta ray in the sky
hiding behind the terrain.
That's right.
Between us and the jellyfish.
That's so fascinating,
right? And what's really, really crazy
here is
there have been two instances of UAP
reacting seemingly to our intent.
Uh-huh. So around 2003, we were running
an event and we had the opportunity to
bring for the government event, we
brought an energy weapon with us.
Um and so we had this energy weapon up
on the hill
and we're doing things with it for the
government project.
This microwave that
Yeah, something like that.
Okay.
And um we saw a class 6 coming through
our our event,
right? And this was extracurricular in
our own time and somebody from another
group was like, "Hey, let's aim that
thing at that UAP and see what happens
if we energize it." So, we're like,
"Sure, let's just see what happens."
Right? So, this person went to um to
move. It was a there was [snorts] no
electronic gimbal. It was like a manual
antenna. You had to feed horn. You had
to turn towards the UAP. So he's like
goes out there a couple you know call it
60 70 feet from our operating area out
there and starts turning it towards it
mid turn before he could actually turn
it to the UAP
the UAP hit us with an energy weapon.
Whoa.
Right. And that energy weapon turned our
systems off as in off as in
blank screens. Wow.
It was working and then it was in the
off position.
Yeah. And it happened to systems that
were not connected to the same network.
Um, and that were not used together.
So, I think there were three separate
systems that turned off.
Wow.
All right. So, did the UAP know that we
were going to try to
send uh energy towards it? High energy
microwave uh towards it.
Seems like it.
And did it react?
I think so. It's never happened since
because we've never tried that again.
Yeah. Uh, and we can't try it now
commercially because that's highly
illegal. Don't everyone no one should do
that in the United States. You should go
to jail. Like that's not a laughing
matter. The FCC will get you.
Yeah.
Um or the FAA or whoever it is. Yeah.
Um you can't just go do that. So it's
Does that concern you at all? Just that
that interaction. Does that does that
make you think twice about because you
hear rumors of directed energy being
shot at UAP? And I always I don't know.
I feel I feel conflicted about that.
That feels like a possibly dangerous,
you know, territory. You guys are mo are
you you're mostly doing just psionic
based or not psionic based stuff, but um
trying to get them to land or are you
doing any of the shooting at
No. No. So, uh Skywatcher as a team, we
are not aggressive. We're not trying to
go to war or have, you know, destroy
American or Chinese or Russian equipment
in the sky and
create an intergalactic battle.
Yeah. Or have a have have a war with NHI
or whatever the hell it is. Like, we're
not trying to do that. We don't want
that pain. We don't want that
responsibility.
Um we we are approaching this very
scientifically and peace peacefully.
Um and and so those activities aren't
activities that we want to do. And if
those are done, the government can go do
that. We have no interest in um harming
or destroying any of this uh material or
craft or beings. Like that's not our
interest at all. It's quite the opposite
actually. And our desire is that one
lands. And that is with the psionic
team. What we're trying to do is get one
to land
peacefully. Right? uh you know we don't
need to harm or kill or maim or destroy.
We want to observe, collect
and understand. So that was the first
time that we had UAPs react to our
action or intentions we believe. The
second time was with the tic tac in
February. Um
I saw a manta ray was watching the manta
ray and then it disappeared again. The
manta and the tic tac were hiding from
our primary sensor. They approached from
the one avenue of approach we couldn't
see for miles and miles and they hid
behind terrain and they used a train to
mask their presence from our sensors
that were being taken out anyway by the
we believe the jellyfish. So I sat there
for probably 20 minutes and watched a a
uh manta ray in the sky. Uh it looks
kind of like a trash bag that never
descends or just an amorphous uh shape
that's rolling and tumbling constantly.
Mhm.
Um but and and then also a tic tac right
next to it. So they were both in the sky
kind of about the same place about 800
meters elevation about 800 meters away.
We're watching them manta ray for about
20 and then the tic tac for about five.
So at this time we did have the
helicopter up on the hill and we had a
lot of security because again this is
day five of anomalous weird things
happening that never happened before.
So we are expecting something
interesting. Jordan predicted it and
it's happening as he said. Um, so I'm
like, "Hey,
I want to get in a helicopter and go see
the tic tac. Let's go chase it." So
like, what else what other data can we
can we get now? We can't get radar. We
can't get the highend imagery because
those systems are
off, right? They're not connectable.
This is the day I told you where our
secondary systems weren't ready to go.
So, um, we're looking at them with
binoculars and scopes. And I'm like,
well, let's go get more data. So, I turn
to run down the hill. about 200 meter
run to get to the helicopter.
I get 10 steps and the the tic tac
starts flying away.
So it sat there for over 2530 minutes
while we observed the manta ray and the
tic tac. And then we watched once that
was gone, we watched only the tic tac.
And then it just so happens that as I
turn radio to run down the helicopter
and on the radio, hey, start the
helicopter up
deliberately to go fly to it. That's
when it decides to depart. So did it
know that I was coming to it? Did it
understand my intention to fly up to it
and pay it a visit?
Yeah.
You know, um
that's amazing. Does that does that when
you that or the the energy weapon
anecdote, do you ever worry that it's
just this crazy game of cat and mouse
where the cat can mind readad the mouse
or whatever and you guys are the mouse,
you know, trying to sense these things.
And it's like if they can show that
level of kind of, you know, um,
prediction of intent, you know, is it it
will will we ever get to, you know,
clear resolution on these things?
Well, I don't know, right? And
honest answer.
Yeah. It's really hard to say like like
it is a cat-and- mouse game. It feels
like it does feel like
how many times do you have to fly
advanced technology in beam of a radar
to know what it how it works,
right? like how many years do you have
to do it in a row, right? So like
clearly they are presenting as if they
are measuring our capabilities and
responses.
But if there's an intelligent entity
doing this, do they not understand
already?
Mhm.
So clearly in my opinion, it's less
about our technology and more about our
reaction.
Right. So they know we can see them.
They know it because that week uh on the
fifth day
we chased like seven or 10 UAPs before
that.
Mhm.
So it knew we were going to chase it,
right? It must have known. Whoever's
controlling it knew we were going to
chase it. The question is why would they
put themselves in beam and put
themselves in that vulnerable apparently
vulnerable position repeatedly.
So as you get into the philosophical
here, it's really hard to understand and
see through. Okay. um why are they
putting themselves in this apparently
vulnerable position,
right?
To what end? Do you know do they want us
to fly to it? Do they want us to
interact with it? I believe so.
Um and
are they aware of our intentions? I
don't know because our intentions have
not always been pure,
right? Like I said, somebody aimed an
energy weapon at one of these things and
it took action. Yeah. Right. So,
um is it I you know, how does that fit?
I really wish we could sit and and have
a philosophical discussion with a
philosopher and say like, yeah, let's
walk the dog on each possibility. Yeah.
Because there might be enough data to
understand that.
Do the psionic assets are they able to
overlay some of possible information?
Like you see Jordan predicting, oh, the
next day there's going to be a war in
the sky and it's accurate.
To me, that would and I know some of his
story and out of respect for him, I'll
let him come out with that whenever. But
uh you know does that make you think oh
a lot of this stuff he probably you know
believes philosophically about this
stuff might be right as well like you
you know increases the probability that
you know uh the psionic assets are
probably correct about maybe other
things. Do they have any sort of
metaphysical worldview around this that
is possibly informative or illustrative
of what you're looking at or
we haven't figured that out yet. Right.
We purposefully maintain a separation
from the psionic team.
Oh, interesting. It's like a double
blind or something.
Yeah, precisely. Like
we're up on a hill with our system using
the dog whistle.
We are not telling the psionic team. We
have tried this in the past, but
typically we do not tell a psionic team
there's something inbound.
They don't they have no idea what's
happening up on the hill. They can't see
it. They can't hear it. They don't know.
Wow.
Right. And and then we're documenting
their call outs and their descriptions
and their efforts.
Yeah.
Uh we've done that two or three events
in a row. probably morph that and change
that under guidance of our science team.
Yeah.
To kind of understand, hey, if if they
know nothing and we don't really know
what they're doing, which is also the
case,
then we can't really we can't to our
knowledge make an effect and we can't
pollute the other's minds with what's
going to happen.
Smart way to do it. Yeah, they must have
I mean I've I've I've met a few of them
and it seems like they have some pretty
interesting backgrounds in past history
where
and I think this is going to come out
probably increasingly in the next year
or two. There are these kind of gifted
and talented education programs in the
United States that recruited often
children to be kind of you know high sai
assets in various cases and probably for
various use cases maybe part of the
remote viewing stuff that hell put off
and Russell Tar started you know back in
the day Stargate Grill Grill Flame all
of that and then maybe some UAP related
stuff as well. What do you what do you
think about their stories? Is that do
you think that
that is a widespread program in the US
where they're recruiting kind of these
these younger younger people? So
Stranger Things is that a real is that a
real show on reality?
That's it's a really good question, man.
Um talking to some of these folks, their
stories are very believable.
Some of them have more than a story.
They have data. They have documents.
They have places and names and dates
that go with their stories. M so um I'd
offer that there's that data supports
their story to a degree.
It doesn't prove or disprove anything
psionic but it does show a programmatic
nature of something occurring.
Now is that programmatic nature due to
their own condition or their own self
or is it due to a third party
instituting something with them for a
purpose and I don't know that there's
enough data to know that yet. Um perhaps
somebody has compiled that data and can
show that disparity or that proof or
actually not disparity but parody
between the stories to say like there is
a systematic yeah program.
I would offer um
a lot of times you have to lean on AAM's
razor.
You have to go with like are people
really that evil?
Is our government really that evil? Are
they really that um that subversive of
the American way?
Um I think there can be limited cases
like that, but I think they're limited.
Yeah. And I think when you look at this
again through AAM's razor, you have to
lean on no probably not. And if there
is, it's very very rare or done with.
Yeah, I I'm with you. I mean, I think I
think there is a there there. I think
some of these programs did exist. And
then it it's hard for me to believe it
was extremely widespread because we just
have more of this stuff coming out. But
we also we did experiment with
parasychology. I do think you get into,
you know, deeper levels of of government
or aerospace. I do think people believe
that the the mind matter duality thing
is not as simple as you know academia
sort of presents it.
Class 4, what what are we looking at
there?
Uh class 4 is the orb.
Um we've only seen that a couple years
in a row when we did see the class 4.
We're doing certain activities for the
government that we can't do commercially
and we're only able to do them for a
limited amount of time with the
government. So I can't describe those
activities. I can just say that they
were extraordinary and different. And
when we did those activities is when we
noted the class
4.
Um we think it's about two or three
years apart across. Um we've only seen
it in the infrared short wave and uh uh
medium wave infrared.
Um that could be due to atmospheric
conditions, dust in the air uh uh or
other reasons.
Um we've never had them on radar that we
know of. we have a lot of data to call
through
and it's expensive and hard to analyze.
We're working on that.
Um so we relied on look there's an
object it's below the cloud deck.
It's not returning a laser rangefinder
return. Um it's moving against the wind.
Um and what we observed was they two of
them flew in together
on either side of our valley and then
camped for about four hours, three and a
half hours.
Um while actually class ones did
something again extraordinary and
different. Mhm.
And then after the class ones were done,
they flew out together.
Right. So I don't think celestial bodies
could represent like that or present
like that, excuse me.
I don't think um you know I don't know
of any craft that are that can you know
we know the cloud deck wasn't that high
that day.
Um
in in our estimation any drone or
helicopter would have been hearable and
visible under those conditions. And
these were right here in the sky just
just above us 45 degree angle off each
horizon. and elevated um and they moved
in tandem right as a pair. So again that
goes against like celestial bodies that
goes against um any known technology
and so we believe that that is a class
of UAP. It could be another class that
we've never seen do that
activity before but
you know we have limited data
right and we stayed as much.
Which class did you add with the psionic
assets which you just started working
the egg?
The egg the class 9.
Okay. Fascinating. Well, that dovetales
with Jake's story where he said that he
was when he retrieved the egg in I think
it was uh the mid 2000s on on the range
in California. Uh there were some
psionic assets present trying to call
the thing in. So that's fascinating.
[music]
Class 5, what are we looking at?
Class 5 is the manta ray.
Mhm. Um, it looks like a black body
object that might have perhaps vents on
top of it that emanate some kind of uh
uh I'll just call it plasma, not
necessarily plasma, although I do
believe plasma is seen in conjunction
with UAPs often, but we don't know that,
right?
So, emanate something that looks like
plasma-ish.
Um, and it tumbles and rotates. Again,
not too dissimilar from a balloon, but
it does things that balloons don't do,
like blink out of visibility or uh fly
against the wind. It does other things.
So,
um uh we we've we've seen the class 5
only twice.
Mhm.
Uh I guess three times now. Um so, we
have more observations recently in 2025.
I think the last time we saw one was
like 23.
Um and um we don't know a whole lot
about it. We have it on radar. We have
it on all the bands of imagery. We don't
have any signant for it.
It's probably about two and a half
meters in diameter
and um it just seems to fly through.
It doesn't really stop and smell the
music or
smell the roses, excuse me. It doesn't
uh really hang out. It just kind of
moves through and and and then leaves.
Um
uh until the event with the tic tac
where it hovered in the sky and hover.
So
that was so fascinating. It almost
sounds like the manta and the tic tac
were like allied against the jellyfish.
Like there was this
so interest like war of the world or
something.
Okay, class 6. What are we looking at?
Um so the class 6 is what we call the
bright star.
Um it vibrates a lot. Mhm.
Um, and it uh it it does things to our
equipment, whether it's shutting off our
equipment or interferes in other ways
with our equipment,
um, to modify what we think we're
seeing,
right? So,
so there's some signature management.
There's absolutely some signature
management with class 6.
Um,
so it doesn't like us to track it,
right? It doesn't like us to put eyes on
it. We think
that sounds like possibly human, but
I don't know.
Like all things are possible here.
Yeah. Yeah.
Um but uh uh the classics vibrates uh
oscillates very fast. So fast that uh
if you're looking at it under camera,
you think you see three of them.
Mhm.
Uh one unit of measure of the craft
to the left and to the right. Really,
it's one vibrating. And you know that
because it comes out of the out of the
oscillation and stops and then you see
it's one craft and then it'll turn it
back on and it moves so fast that our
system thinks it's a propeller. M
so when it when it oscillates as a
propeller it thinks interprets it as
and then it'll stop oscillating and then
just kind of keep continue flying and
then the radar will indicate that it's
not a propeller anymore.
Wow.
Right.
So um it does change brightness.
It'll seem to like get very energetic
much like the class 3 blob does. Mhm.
It'll it'll emanate more light as it
vibrates really fast. And then when the
light kind of dies down, it stops
vibrating as fast until it stops
vibrating completely.
And then it'll go back almost like a
cycle. Almost like somebody starting a
process and that process um that chain
continues until it is exhausted and then
it returns to its old state. And
that's kind of what the impression is of
what we're seeing with the class 6.
Fascinating.
[music]
Class A is the Hornet. Okay. Um we've
only seen a a class 8 a couple times.
Interesting.
Yep. Um kind of like the class 5 is kind
of elusive. We see it a whole bunch.
Um
anything specific that you did around
that time where the the the Hornet
entered or
No. Um but the Hornet was the last UAP I
chased.
Oh.
Uh in March.
Yeah. And that was you were telling me
on the phone you got a little
discombobulated or something.
No, that was actually the tic tac.
That was the tic tac story you told.
The class 8 is the one we flew within
about 200 meters and couldn't see it.
Okay. And so what happened when you
chased the hornet? Class 8.
Um it continued on its flight path.
Didn't deviate. Didn't change. Um but we
just couldn't see it and document it.
Interesting.
Right. So it just continued on a very
slow. It was only moving like 20 knots.
Wa.
Super super slow. Agonizing. so slow. We
were just doing orbits trying like get
in, you know, chasing in orbits trying
to get aligned to it so we could
visualize as we went past it. We just
couldn't. Wow. Could never see it.
Class 9.
Uh the class 9 is the egg.
That's the egg. So is this is so
fascinating. Is this the hope? Because I
you know I spoke to Jake I think it was
in January and we had a really
interesting discussion. He said he
expressed he exuded a lot of confidence.
He said in six months we're going to get
this thing to land.
If all things go well
before, I'm trying not to say a date,
but within the first half of 2025, we
hope to do a demonstration and and
invite key members of the public from
institutions [snorts] um and demonstrate
this and maybe even get something to the
ground. And that's going to answer a lot
of questions.
That would be absolutely insane.
And I don't know, maybe that's a, you
know, Elon Musk style timeline that's a
little aggressive or something, but is
it can you guys get the egg to land? Is
that presumably I would assume that's
the hope because of his past experience.
I look at some of these other classes
and to me there's such a gap between
like the I don't know the manta ray or
the hornet or some of these things and
like you know a concrete object like on
the ground that you can like reverse
engineer and fly. So is the hope the egg
and can you guys bring it down pretty
pretty quickly you know through peaceful
psionic means or
I have no expectation.
Okay.
I literally don't know. Yeah. Like
is the egg a real craft? Yeah. Is the
thing we imaged with our rudimentary
imaging system at the time even there?
Right. Um, if it is there, can Jordan or
someone else control it?
Right. If they can't control it, are
they able to tell it to land and have it
land? I would offer in known history
that has never happened.
Right. And if it has happened, it's in a
closed program that nobody knows about.
Well, well, according to Jake, it's
happened.
Well, yes.
Yeah.
So, show me the money.
Yeah. Yeah. Right.
I'm open-minded.
Yeah. I'm hopeful. I would love for that
to happen. Yeah,
that'd be perfect.
That'd be wild.
Will it happen?
Yeah.
Will it happen in six months? I have no
idea.
Yep.
Would I like it to? Of course I would.
Is Is that the one you're holding out
hope for as far as some sort of
retrieval of actual material or or are
there others that you feel might be able
to you might be able to derive material
from? Or
any of these craft
appear to have material and technology
that we don't understand?
So if any of them were to land or crash
um that would be very interesting. I can
say
some could be non-physical though. Some
are or some sort of plasma ball thing,
right?
I accept that could be the case. Some of
them might be holograms or plasmoids or
things that if they land there's molten
the fan turns to to to glass or metal or
whatever. I don't know. Sure. Why not?
Um
I believe we have seen four UAPs crash
over the years.
Um
really? Yep.
You've seen them crash.
We believe. And I say believe for a lot
of reasons.
We've seen three class ones um
uh when we were doing, you know, in 2023
when we did something special for the
government, uh the UAPs behave
differently.
And uh we saw about 200 UAPs in a day
over a 4-hour period. And they were all
almost all class ones at the time. And
they were actually coming instead of
just flying through our airspace, they
were coming from directly over us as if
from space.
So they would come straight down,
ingress
and then and then they would eress out
lowle away from us. And they did it in
ones and twos and threes at a time.
We saw about 200 of them total, 200
sorties.
Mhm.
Um the class ones as they're doing that
that's different, right? So, as they
were doing that, we saw three of them
that instead of coming in in a low-level
egressing came in at an angle
from directly overhead and just
continued as if to the ground.
Whoa.
And they went below the the the ridge
lines.
Mhm.
And we never saw them come up.
You go look for them.
Yeah. So, it was actually really bad
timing. Um that year we had uh really
epic rainfall that afternoon after the
show was over. It rained for like two
days straight.
Oh man.
Um I had to wait about a week and then I
took a whole crew um for a uh
hunt for a cartel drone that had crashed
and we were out there looking for
probably six or eight hours. We found
nothing.
Nothing.
And again, what are we looking for? I'm
looking for a glass crystal ball. I'm
looking for a cube. Am I looking for
carcass? Like what am I a tetrahedrin?
like what am I looking for?
No idea.
Um and and some of these deserts are
extremely rugged and at the time I
didn't have a helicopter.
Y
um and then in 2024
um
we saw a class 8
that started 3,500 meters above us as it
came through and it sort
the hornet.
Yep.
And then finished at sorty just a couple
hundred meters over the ground again
right at terrain level.
Wow. So, um, we went out this January
and flew for probably two hours, hour
looking for anything. Again, what are we
looking for? Don't know. Extremely
rugged and difficult train. So, we think
we've seen them crash without us to our
knowledge doing anything to cause that,
but we have yet to find any wreckage or
find anything to show like there is
something here. So fascinating. Do what
do you think? Sorry, I keep saying it so
bad, but it is like it's just so
interesting. Um um do you think that the
government could be redte teaming you
guys at all? I mean you know uh uh you
were in California near Palmdale and
then you were also in Finley and Texas
and those are near, you know, pretty
sensitive training facilities, test
sites, that sort of thing. Do you think
that any of the prime aerospace
contractors are throwing stuff at you to
kind of mess with your reconnaissance
systems or mess with your detection
systems or so? I would offer my opinion
is no.
And the reason why is the craft we are
seeing are conducting explicitly illegal
operations of these guys.
They're invisible. There's no markers.
They don't have ADSB. They don't have
AIS. They don't have anything on board
to show their presence.
Also, they're flying adjacent to or in
commercial air corridors,
right, where all our commercial traffic
fly. And they're flying at flight
levels. We see them at flight level 180.
We see them, I presume, higher uh than
180. We know higher, but we can't
measure it because it's too high for a
radar to reach. So, um, whoever is doing
this, if it is domestic, like they need
to be they need to, you know, uh, get
their affairs in order before they get
caught. because um if it is domestic
then they're breaking the law
frankly
you know feloniously
would you have a say a MC West we just
talked about debunkers MC West or
somebody like that out on the range to
try to stress test you know what what
you're doing
yeah um I I think we're willing to work
with certain people um frankly
personally like I have no time for
debunkers if someone starts saying I
want to debunk I just kind of get angry
and kind of want to like lash out like
Like just be open-minded. Just listens.
Take off your lenses.
Yeah.
Of opinions and just open your mind and
and accept. Yeah.
Uh let us let us give you share some
knowledge so we can learn together.
Uh should we should we invite out a MC
West or whatever?
Maybe that could happen. Yeah.
Um but frankly like I have no interest
in him.
But you would take a credentialed
scientist out there who doesn't
necessarily have a you know an a priori
interest in UFOs.
Yeah. Absolutely. Because understand the
difference. One entity is is hostile and
extremely opinionated and has a
preconceived notion of what you're
saying and the other entity is
open-minded and willing to understand
what you're saying before they formulate
their opinion.
For sure.
And so the one uh the hostile one like
again it uh I treat hostility with
hostility. I have no desire to work
with, talk to, interact or face with
them because bad things will happen and
it's bad for everybody. Yeah. Right. So,
um, uh, I'd rather focus on the people
who actually, um, are open-minded, have
the intelligence necessary to understand
the problem, and aren't, uh, simpleans.
Yeah. You know,
Yeah. What, uh, what's your take on the
Jersey drone situation? We were, we were
just talking about that before we
started rolling, and it still feels so
frustratingly inconclusive. You have the
White House saying that they were FAA
research drones after Trump, I think,
told his, you know, special assistant,
"Go look into this." And that was just
such an unsatisfying answer for so many,
you know, residents of Jersey. Um, what
do you think was happening?
I think um, one of our adversaries has
the ability to fly with impunity and
operate in our airspace and we are
helpless to stop it.
That's insane.
That's really scary. Um, and any reason
to believe that that you can discuss
publicly or
uh I I think that uh Langley Air Force
Base based on uh news articles was
probably done by China.
Mhm.
And um
that was 17 days of just completely
unperturbed incursions.
Yes. Exactly. And and I think that uh
you know we know that the HAB the
balloon that flew through was from
China. Mhm.
Um, so there's only one entity that has
a past performance to my knowledge of
flying in our airspace with apparent
impunity uh with us not doing anything
to stop it and that's China.
So why wouldn't you naturally arrive at
a sustained uh intrusion in our
airspace? Why wouldn't you assume it's
China until proven otherwise if you have
two explicit examples of very high
likelihood being China or we know it's
China. So the question we have to ask
ourselves is are the craft we're seeing
group three drones? Are they UAPs
operated by China
and and
what are the pre permutations thereof?
Like what does it mean if it is or isn't
a UA?
Can they carry payloads if they're
flying with exotic flight principles? I
mean that's a really scary possibility.
And what is the purpose
if if it is a a China or Russia or
whoever it is?
Mhm.
To what end? Why would they do that to
the the American populace? Why would
they continue when they know we're
looking? Is it to show our incompetence?
Is it is it to derail our national
security apparatus and say like look how
incompetent you are. We can do what we
want. Is it because that's why I have
trouble believing it's China, right?
It's just so I mean what a flex, right?
Like if you're doing that over
residential neighborhoods in Jersey,
that's kind of an act of war. That's
serious.
I think that's why our government's
constrained.
Mhm.
Right. Because on the one hand, our
government whose job is to protect the
nation can't come out and be
incompetent.
No.
Like it cannot be done. Totally.
Like they have to be able to protect us.
I think in the 60 Minutes uh
uh article or or episode they did on
this, they spoke with the NORAD
commander
and he said something that was very
telling. He said that um uh we have
allowed uh technology uh the threat to
grow. we don't have technology to match
something something along those lines.
Basically meaning that maybe whoever is
doing this has a capability that we have
not uh
grown defensive technology enough to
counter.
It's freaky. Well, then you have the
Trump statement at the time where he
goes uh Biden knows they know what this
is. It's coming from a garage. It's very
strange. We know where the garage is.
And that makes me think NHI.
Our military knows where they took off
from. If it's a garage, they can go
right into that garage. They know where
it came from and where it went. I can't
imagine it's the enemy because if it was
the enemy, they'd blast it out. Even if
they were late, they'd blast it. Uh
something strange is going on. For some
reason, they don't want to tell the
people, and they should.
And then you had that, I think, sheriff,
the local sheriff in New Jersey saying
that he thought he saw them come out of
the water. And you know, trans medium is
this, you know, important observable of
UAPs. and uh you know there were rumors
of underwater bases and that sort of
thing. So that made me think maybe NHI
but it's well I mean it's also I we
talked about this with Jake it could be
a mix you know you could use the
presence of NHI UAP to opportunistically
flood the zone and that it's extremely
hard to figure out what's what. Yeah, I
think so. I'm open to all concepts here.
I personally, my opinion is that it's
probably adversary. It's probably China.
Yeah.
But um there's so many unknowns like
like um how how do you figure it out and
tell the tale?
I hope at the highest level
we've figured it out whether it's
adversary or NHI. I hope I hope somebody
knows because
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I I hope they do too.
I like to have faith in my government
and believe that they are doing the
right thing.
I know I was in the government for a
long time. I know a lot of government
officials um generally very very good
people,
patriots who love their country and want
nothing but the best for all of us. So
I hope I really hope that they do have
this figured out and that they have a
capability and that we can rest easy and
not worry about it.
But there's the potential that some of
that might not be the case that maybe
they haven't figured it out. So
in five years from today, do you have
any hopes, dreams, expectations for
Skywatcher?
Yeah, I would like to have Skywatcher as
part of the Golden Dome.
I would like to be uh proactive on the
UAP problem.
We have a technology to detect UAPs. Uh
we're growing that technology. That
technology should be everywhere. Um not
because I'm a capitalist and want to
make a lot of money. Of course, of
course most people want to make money
and be independently wealthy. but for
the national security implications of
here's a phenomena, here's a thing on
our airspace moving with impunity
through our air corridors and nobody
knows anything about it. So if we deploy
the right sensors in the right mix, we
we can become masters of our airspace
and become air aware if you will of
what's going on.
So that's why we started Skywatcher.
That's why we're developing the
technology and in 5 years it'd be
wonderful if it's deployed and then now
we can have a body of knowledge and data
on this phenomena on this threat on this
instance of what's occurring and be able
to make educated decisions at that
point.
Have you seen the movie Arrival?
Yes. Do you ever think like, you know, a
lot of what you guys are doing is, you
know, kind of initiating contact in some
ways and is it worth getting a
symbologist on staff or, you know, some
some cultural anthropologist or
something? Or is it is it worth thinking
about how, you know, if we are
interacting with them eventually in a
more intimate way than like, you know,
just sensors. um you know making sure
that that those first interactions are
friendly and good to the extent that you
know that might dictate you know future
relations.
I mean possibly. Yeah. I mean I don't
think the Skywatcher team is first
contact.
Yeah.
Right. If the if our government
sure
has been interacting with these things
for decades that's first contact. We're
second third or 90th right in the
we're just the first public. Well, you
hear rumors around that stuff where it's
like I don't know. I have no idea how
much weight to put in this, but it's
like the aliens are or the NHI are
coming back for their stuff and they're
not happy that, you know, the way the
government has interacted with the
material and that sort of thing. It's,
you know, to weaponize this stuff and
it's not to create, you know, civil side
propulsion or whatever. And that could
totally be a bunch of mushyrained woo
woo UFO people. um you know just saying
you know of which I can be one sometimes
or whatever you know just engaging
wishful thinking
but um yeah do you lend any credence to
any of that stuff or
I think I think there's a lot of smoke
right I don't know where the fire is at
right it's really really hard to see
through
again I said before that I think that
there there are elements of our
government and other governments who are
using information operations warfare on
this topic
I don't know their motives. I don't know
to what end, but I think it's in our
face that that's happening. Um, look at
the second episode and look at Reddit
and how it blew up with all these
apparent bots
talking a lot of negative trash about
Skywatcher and Balloons.
Like, somebody paid money for that.
Like, is Mick West working for somebody?
Is somebody paying him money? Good
question. Are these paid actors?
Yeah. um are those paid actors employing
uh different technology to subvert
knowledge or or modify knowledge, right?
And to what end?
Um so I do think that there's evidence
there that evidence could be studied.
Again, that costs money to do, right? It
costs a lot of money to go and research
a bunch of Reddit users and show it's a
botnet and like it's doable. It's just
expensive, right?
Yeah. Yeah.
So, but it's my belief that that those
things are happening.
um maybe it's not America, maybe it's
our adversaries who are controlling some
of those messages.
Um
for their own motives and means, but as
a civilian, it's really hard to say why,
but the what, I think, is fairly obvious
that that has happened.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. James Fowler, this is
an honor, man. I appreciate your time.
This is fascinating, and I'm I'm curious
to see where all of your efforts go.
Thanks, Jesse. Awesome. Appreciate it.
All right.